README.md, before:

Spheral++ provides a steerable parallel environment for performing coupled hydrodynamical & gravitational numerical simulations. Hydrodynamics and gravity are modelled using particle based methods (SPH and N-Body).

Some useful features are
- Total energy conserving compatible hydro mode.
- ASPH (Adapative Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics) algorithm.
- CRKSPH (Conservative Reproducing Kernel Hydrodyamics) is also available.
- Oct-tree based N-Body gravity.
- Fluid and solid material modeling.
- Damage and fracture modeling in solids.
- Scriptable user interface in python.
- Extensible by user in python, including the ability to write new physics packages in python.

Basic documentation is under development at https://spheral.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Release and license:

Copyright (c) 2012, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.  
Produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory  
Written by J. Michael Owen <mikeowen@llnl.gov>  
LLNL-CODE-561852  
All rights reserved.

Please see full license at https://github.com/jmikeowen/spheral/blob/master/License.txt

Commit message:

Make the Spheral license detectable
GitHub uses [Licensee](https://github.com/licensee/licensee) to
detect licenses and Spheral doesn't show up as BSD 3-clause
(even though it is) because it is adding a bunch of text to the
license file and appending the lab's additional notice, which
can be separate.

See https://software.llnl.gov/about/licenses/ for more.

- [x] Use the standard BSD 3-clause license format
- [x] Use the LICENSE
- [x] Separate the NOTICE file
- [x] Spruce up the README and add a SPDX identifier

README.md, after:

Spheral
----------------

Spheral++ provides a steerable parallel environment for performing coupled
hydrodynamical & gravitational numerical simulations. Hydrodynamics and gravity are
modelled using particle based methods (SPH and N-Body).

Some useful features are
- Total energy conserving compatible hydro mode.
- ASPH (Adapative Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics) algorithm.
- CRKSPH (Conservative Reproducing Kernel Hydrodyamics) is also available.
- Oct-tree based N-Body gravity.
- Fluid and solid material modeling.
- Damage and fracture modeling in solids.
- Scriptable user interface in python.
- Extensible by user in python, including the ability to write new physics packages in python.

Basic documentation is under development at https://spheral.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Written by J. Michael Owen <mikeowen@llnl.gov>

License
----------------

Spheral is distributed under the terms of the BSD 3-clause license. All new
contributions must be made under this license.

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/LLNL/spheral/blob/develop/LICENSE)
and [NOTICE](https://github.com/LLNL/spheral/blob/develop/NOTICE)
files for details.

SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause

LLNL-CODE-561852
